Add multichannel docs (#234)
mirumee/saleor-docs: docs/developer/channels.mdx

---
title: Channels
sidebar_label: Channels
---

## Introduction

> Since version 3.0, Saleor supports multichannel. This feature allows the shop owner for configuring many aspects of the store depending on a channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since version 3.0, Saleor supports multiple sales channels. This feature allows the shop owner to configure many aspects of the store depending on the channel used.
```

- Your store needs at least one channel to display products
- You can add as many channels as you need
- Each channel have exactly one currency
- Channels can be deactivated for customers

Popular use cases:
- If you sell internationally, you can use separate channels for different currencies or regions

> - If you want to have different prices in the custom mobile app and website, you can set up `website-channel` and `mobile-channel`

Reviewer 2: Can we prevent splitting of names like `website-channel`?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43955230/107225753-7d122580-6a19-11eb-946a-38ef37553e47.png)

Author: Good idea. Your wish has been granted! :D

```json
{
  "data": {
    "channel": {
      "id": "Q2hhbm5lbDo0MzM=",
      "isActive": false,
      "name": "Mobile",
      "slug": "mobile",
      "currencyCode": "PLN",
      "hasOrders": false
    }
  }
```

## Creating new channel

Creating new channel is done using [`channelCreate`](developer/api-reference/mutations/channel-create.mdx) mutation.

Request:
```graphql
mutation {
  channelCreate(
    input: {
      "currencyCode":"PLN",
      "name":"Mobile",
      "slug":"mobile"
    }
  ){
    channel {
      id
      isActive
      name
      slug
      currencyCode
    }
    errors: channelErrors {
      code
      field
      message
    }
  }
}
```

Response:
```json
{
  "data": {
    "channelCreate": {
      "channel": {
        "id": "Q2hhbm5lbDo0MzM=",
        "isActive": false,
        "name": "Mobile",
        "slug": "mobile",
        "currencyCode": "PLN"
      },
      "errors": []
    }
  }
}
```

### Channel list

Because some of the channels may be considered non-public (for example - channel for business partners), non-staff users can not use [`channels`](developer/api-reference/queries/channels.mdx) query. 

Request:
```graphql
query {
  channels {

>     name

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add slug as listed field too?

Author: I dont think it adds more to the example - fields are described above and in reference

      },
      {
        "name": "Website"
      },
    ]
  }
}
```

### Activate / Deactivate channel

If you want to make the channel unavailable for customers, you can change it's status to deactivated using [`channelDeactivate`](developer/api-reference/mutations/channel-deactivate.mdx): 

```graphql
mutation{
   channelDeactivate(id: "Q2hhbm5lbDoxMQ=="){
    channel {
      name
      isActive
    }
    channelErrors {
      message
    }
  }
}
```

Response:
```json
{
  "data": {
    "channelDeactivate": {
      "channel": {
        "name": "Facebook",
        "isActive": false
      },
      "channelErrors": []
    }
  }
}
```

And to reverse the previous operation use [`channelActivate`](developer/api-reference/mutations/channel-activate.mdx):

```graphql
mutation{
  channelActivate(id: "Q2hhbm5lbDoxMQ=="){
    channel {
      name
      isActive
    }
    channelErrors {
      message
    }
  }
}
```

Response:
```json
{
  "data": {
    "channelDeactivate": {
      "channel": {
        "name": "Facebook",
        "isActive": true
      },
      "channelErrors": []
    }
  }
}
```

## Removing a channel

Channels can be removed only when:
- theres no orders created in them.

> - if there are orders, there's provided `targetChannel` with the same currency as channel you are about to delete.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add information that all orders related to this channel will be moved to `tergetChannel` ?
